Add `CONTRIBUTING.md` (#3347)
DGEXSolutions/osrd: CONTRIBUTING.md

Reviewer: I just thought about the translation of the application. I'm not sure where to put it exactly but it might be nice to have a link to transifex here.

Author: Yes good idea I will add it

# Contributing to OSRD

## Where to start ?

All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.

> If you are brand new to OSRD or open-source development, we recommend going through the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/issues) tab to find issues that interest you. There are number of issues listed under `good first issue` where you could start out.

Reviewer 2: I don't think diving straight into the issues would be a good idea.

It would be best if they first start by chatting with us, IMO linking https://web.libera.chat/#osrd would be better here

## Contribute code

> Commit style are detailed in the [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Commit style is detailed in the [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/).
```

### Pull request / code review

- Every PR, good or bad, is an act of generosity.
  Opening with a positive comment will help the author feel rewarded, and your subsequent remarks may be heard more clearly.

>   You may feel good also.

Reviewer 2: This is for people reviewing the PRs, right? I don't think this is really the place.

Author: I don't know, [numpy](https://numpy.org/devdocs/dev/reviewer_guidelines.html#communication-guidelines) has this in the (huge) contributing section of the documentation

Reviewer 4: To be fair, numpy accepts reviews from everybody, not only people from the numpy team - and the numpy team isn't all in one company, so they need to document this stuff anyway.

I guess we should too. After all, the more eyes that look at the code, the better.

And even then, it's good to document positive communication  in as many places as possible :)

Reviewer 2: OK, let's keep it then.

But then the way it's written is a bit off. `You may also feel good` would be better (if we want to keep this part about feeling good).

- Add a description to PRs to explain what they do and why.

> - Each PR must be linked to at least one github issue attached to the PI board to simplify tracking of the work done in a sprint.

Reviewer 2: The PI board is private, as well as the agile stuff. This document should be written with external contributors in mind.

If we want to document this it should be in another document, specifically for SNCF employees. Either on the website, or as an internal document if we want to keep it somehow private.

> - Each PR must be linked to at least one github issue attached to the PI board to simplify tracking of the work done in a sprint.

Reviewer 3: This might be obscure for external contributors

> - Pay attention to all the comments made by reviewers and either answer/challenge them or address them before pushing new commits and asking for another review.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Pay attention to all the comments made by reviewers and either answer/challenge them or address them before asking for another review.
```

- Assign one maintainer and one developer using github assignment when opening the PR to get reviews.
- Help the reviewer by following advice given in [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/code-review-love/).
- Review code following advice given in [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code-reviews/) and [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).

> - Make commits of logical and atomic units.

Reviewer 3: Maybe elaborate on what atomic means for OSRD

Author: I think the notion of atomic commit is well documented and we should not have our interpretation of it but keep it as standard as possible. there is a lot of blogs about this

- If possible, make PR of logical and atomic units too (avoid mixing refactoring, new features and bug fix at the same time).
- Keep your branch up-to-date :
```
git checkout <your_branch>
git fetch

> git rebase -i origin/dev

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git rebase origin/dev
```

`-i` is really convenient in general but not in this specific case.

```

### Feature freeze

- No feature should be added last friday of the sprint to avoid last minute broken demos.

> - Merging changes last minute in the night must be avoided (it is error prone and could break other part of the app).

Reviewer 2: Not the place for this.

### Bugs

The way support is delivered greatly impacts how users perceive the product and the team.
Handling the incoming support requests efficiently is thus a top priority.

- Bug must have a correct description and the bug's issue template must be filled carefully.
- Bug must be tagged with:
  - `kind:bug`
  - one or several `area:<affected_area>`

>   - one `severity:<bug_severity>`

Reviewer 2: It can be difficult for a non team member to know what is a minor/severe/critical bug. It should be possible to leave it unspecified until someone else specifies it

- Contributors can change issues' tags (severity, area, kind, ...) if necessary. 
  Keep in mind that explaining why you are editing an issue is the best way to avoid misunderstanding.
- If you are working on a bug or plan to work on a bug, assign yourself to the bug.

>   If a bug is assigned to someone, consider that she/he is already working on the resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If a bug is assigned to someone, consider that they are already working on the resolution.
```

> - PRs solving bugs must add a regression tests to ensure that bug will not be back in the future.

Reviewer 2: This isn't always possible

### Python

- Follow [the Zen of Python](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/).
- To keep our API surface minimal, only document and make public what is necessary.
- Take the time to pick good names.

>   Avoid non well-known abbreviations.

Reviewer 2: These should be moved to a "general" section.

I'm not sure if it's really the place for such recommandations.

# Contributing to OSRD

## Where to start ?

All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.

If you are brand new to OSRD or open-source development, we recommend chatting with us on [libera chat](https://web.libera.chat/#osrd) or going through the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/issues) tab to find issues that interest you. There are number of issues listed under `good first issue` where you could start out.

## Contribute code

Commit style is detailed in the [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/#git-commit-style).

> ### Pull request / code review

Reviewer 5: In all this paragraph, it seems to me that there is no logical order between each point. I suggest to reorder them chronologically:
- keep your branch up to date
- make atomic commits
- add a description
- assign a reviewer
- answer to the reviewer before asking for another review
- etc

- Every PR, good or bad, is an act of generosity.
  Opening with a positive comment will help the author feel rewarded, and your subsequent remarks may be heard more clearly.

>   You may feel good also.

Reviewer 5: Seems weird to address in the same doc emotions: "generosity" "feel good" and technical, "how to", details . I would delete these 3 lines (especially as the file is already quite long)

Author: duplicate comment as https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/pull/3347#discussion_r1118789794, I will remove as you are a lot to ask for the removal of this.

- Add a description to PRs to explain what they do and why.

> - Each PR must be linked to at least one github issue to simplify tracking.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Each PR must be linked to at least one issue to simplify tracking.
```

- Pay attention to all the comments made by reviewers and either answer/challenge them or address them before asking for another review.

> - Assign one maintainer and one developer using github assignment when opening the PR to get reviews.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Assign one maintainer and one developer when opening the PR to get reviews.
```

> - Assign one maintainer and one developer using github assignment when opening the PR to get reviews.

Reviewer 5: How do external contributors know who to assign ? Maybe specify that attribution can be random ?

- Help the reviewer by following advice given in [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/code-review-love/).
- Review code following advice given in [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code-reviews/) and [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).
- Make commits of logical and atomic units.
- If possible, make PR of logical and atomic units too (avoid mixing refactoring, new features and bug fix at the same time).
- Keep your branch up-to-date :
```
git checkout <your_branch>
git fetch
git rebase origin/dev
```

### Bugs

The way support is delivered greatly impacts how users perceive the product and the team.

> Handling the incoming support requests efficiently is thus a top priority.

Reviewer 5: Too general, I would delete these 2 lines

- Bug must have a correct description and the bug's issue template must be filled carefully.
- Bug must be tagged with:
  - `kind:bug`
  - one or several `area:<affected_area>` if possible, if the affected area is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member`.

>   - one `severity:<bug_severity>` if possible, if severity is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member

Reviewer 5: It would be useful to explain here the meaning of each severity level:
- minor: user can still use the feature
- major: user sometimes can't use the feature
- critical: user can't use the feature

> - Contributors can change issues' tags (severity, area, kind, ...) if necessary. 
>   Keep in mind that explaining why you are editing an issue is the best way to avoid misunderstanding.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Contributors can change issues' tags (severity, area, kind, ...). You may leave a comment to explain the change.
```

- If you are working on a bug or plan to work on a bug, assign yourself to the bug.

>   If a bug is assigned, consider that they are already working on the resolution.

Reviewer 5: This line seems useless to me, isn't it the definition of "assigned" ?

> - PRs solving bugs should add a regression tests to ensure that bug will not be back in the future.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When possible, add a regression test in PRs solving bugs.
```

Author: I think we have what is needed to add regression tests so I would like to have it like this.

### General code recommendations

> - Take the time to pick good names.

Reviewer 5: Not sure how this is helpful, maybe detail what is a "good name" ?

Author: I like this rule, if more people want to remove it I will

  Avoid non well-known abbreviations.

### Python

- Follow [the Zen of Python](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/).

> - To keep our API surface minimal, only make public what is necessary.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommandations" section

Author: same here https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/pull/3347#discussion_r1134013899

> - Documentation should only be there to explain things that aren't self evident.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommandations" section

Author: It is not the same for java

- Code is linted with [flake8](https://github.com/csachs/pyproject-flake8).
- Code is formatted with [Black](https://github.com/psf/black).
- Imports are sorted with [Isort](https://github.com/PyCQA/isort).

> 
> ### Test
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- Python tests are written using [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/).

### Rust

> - To keep our API surface minimal, only make public what is necessary.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommandations" section

Author: same here https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/pull/3347#discussion_r1134013899

> - Documentation should only be there to explain things that aren't self evident.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommandations" section

Author: same here https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/pull/3347#discussion_r1134013899

- Use the [documentation example](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/meta/doc.html) to know how to phrase and format your documentation.
- Code is linted with [clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy).
- Code is formatted with [fmt](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustfmt).

> 
> ### Test
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> - Test as much code as possible to avoid future regression and show that added code is bullet proof.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommendations" or the "tests" section

- Rust code is tested files per files following these [recommendations](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html).

### Java

> - To keep our API surface minimal, only make public what is necessary.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommandations" section

- All public methods must be documented.
  Avoid paraphrasing doc.
- Code is formatted with [checkstyle](https://checkstyle.sourceforge.io/).

#### Tests

- TODO

### Javascript / Typescript / Front

- To keep our API surface minimal, only make public what is necessary.

> - Documentation should only be there to explain things that aren't self evident.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommandations" section

Author: same here https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/pull/3347#discussion_r1134013899

- When adding new files, write them in TypeScript as there is a goal to move to TypeScript.
- Code is linted with [eslint](https://eslint.org/).
- Code is formatted with [prettier](https://prettier.io/).

#### Tests

- End-to-end tests are required for stable and critical features.
  [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is used to write these tests.
- To write unit test use [vitest](https://vitest.dev/).

### Integration tests

- Integration tests are written using [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) under the `/tests` folder.

> - Test as much as you can when adding a new api.

Reviewer 5: Move to the "general code recommendations" section ? Or maybe move the "test" section under "general code recommendations" ?

Author: I think this part will be improved with future integration tests improvements like https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/issues/3465

- [`tests`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/tests): Package to run integration tests on services.
- [`python/osrd_schemas`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/python/osrd_schemas): Definition of the railjson format.

## What we are trying to build

OSRD is an open source web application for railway infrastructure design, capacity analysis, timetabling and simulation.
Check out details on the [website specific page](https://osrd.fr/en/about/).

OSRD also currently has the following "development process" goals:

- **Don't merge everything ... don't merge too early**: Every feature we add increases maintenance burden and compile times.
  Only merge features that are "generally" useful.
  Don't merge major changes or new features unless we have relative consensus that the design is correct and that we have the developer capacity to support it.
- **Control and consistency over 3rd party code reuse**: Only add a dependency if it is absolutely necessary.
  Every dependency we add decreases our autonomy and consistency.
- **Don't re-invent every wheel**: As a counter to the previous point, don't re-invent everything at all costs.

>   If there is a dependency in the ecosystem that is the "de-facto" standard, we should heavily consider using it.

Reviewer 6: I don't quite get the point of mentioning this here. It might make sense for bevy, does it make sense for us?

Author: I think it is the case yes. For instance `rocket` was kind of such situation where we were using a dependency that was no longer the defacto-standard and we had to migrate to actix.
Dependency management can be a mess and having a lot of them could lead to security issues so we have to be careful when adding one.

Reviewer 6: Sure, we're on the same page, but it is a concern significant enough to mention here? is it something newcomers should worry about?

Author: I think it is important to have it somewhere, is it better if it is here : `General rules` https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd-website/pull/92/files#diff-6ef90b6f4a89d4370639fcc8d21cb96de9cf4f05f1a95ccaf29d5ccf769f466fR10

Reviewer: I think indeed that it would be better placed in the General Rules section

- [`core`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/core): The core engine of the simulation where physics, pathfinding and conflict detection are computed.
- [`editoast`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/editoast): Service to retrieve data from the databases and make data available through http endpoints.
  It is also the place where edition of the infrastructure is computed.
- [`front`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/front): GUI of OSRD.
- [`tests`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/tests): Package to run integration tests on services.
- [`python/osrd_schemas`](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/tree/dev/python/osrd_schemas): Definition of the railjson format.

## What we are trying to build

OSRD is an open source web application for railway infrastructure design, capacity analysis, timetabling and simulation.
Check out details on the [website specific page](https://osrd.fr/en/about/).

OSRD also currently has the following "development process" goals:

- **User-facing API ergonomics come first**: Solid user experience should receive significant focus and investment.

>   It should rarely be compromised in the interest of internal implementation details.

Reviewer 6: This line is taken from bevy, which is a library. Do _we_ focus on API ergonomics?

- **Don't merge everything ... don't merge too early**: Every feature we add increases maintenance burden and compile times.
  Only merge features that are "generally" useful.

>   Don't merge major changes or new features unless we have relative consensus that the design is correct and that we have the developer capacity to support it.

Reviewer 6: I wish it were true for us. I would be more than happy to state it as a goal, but I also think stating it is not enough: it needs to be embraced by the current team

Author: I agree, but how do we make sure this is embraced by the team ? I think the feature freeze is the first step on this path

Reviewer: Writing it down is a first step. I think we can keep it that way.

- **Control and consistency over 3rd party code reuse**: Only add a dependency if it is absolutely necessary.
  Every dependency we add decreases our autonomy and consistency.

>   Dependencies also have the potential to increase compile times and risk pulling in sub-dependencies we don't want / need.

Reviewer 6: we clearly are not dependency-shy: the point about compile times is related to bevy being a library

  Remember that we're all in this together.
  Always follow our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/blob/dev/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- **Test what you need to**: Write useful tests.
  Don't write tests that aren't useful.
  We generally aren't strict about unit testing every line of code.
  We don't want you to waste your time.
  But at the same time:

  - Most new features should have at least one minimal integration test.
  - The more complex or "core" a feature is, the more strict we are about unit tests.
    Use your best judgement here.
    We will let you know if your pull request needs more tests.

## The OSRD Team

The OSRD Team is the group of people responsible for stewarding the OSRD project.
It handles things like merging pull requests, choosing project direction, managing bugs / issues / feature requests, running the OSRD website, controlling access to secrets, defining and enforcing best practices, etc.

Note that you do not need to be a member of the OSRD Team to contribute to OSRD.
Community contributors (this means you) can freely open issues, submit pull requests, and review pull requests.

> Check out our dedicated [Governance document](https://osrd.fr/en/about/governance/) to learn more about how we are organized.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[Click here](https://osrd.fr/en/about/governance/) to learn more about the project's governance.
```

# Contributing to OSRD

## Where to start ?

All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.

> If you are brand new to OSRD or open-source development, we recommend chatting with us on [libera chat](https://web.libera.chat/#osrd) or going through the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/issues) tab to find issues that interest you. There are number of issues listed under `good first issue` where you could start out.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If you are not sure about what to do, come chat with us on [libera chat](https://web.libera.chat/#osrd) or have a look at currently open [good first issues](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).
```

## Contribute code

> Commit style is detailed in the [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/#git-commit-style).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If you are not used to git or the pull request workflow, have a look at [this guide](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/#share-your-changes)
```

### Pull request / code review

- Keep your branch up-to-date :
```

> git checkout <your_branch>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
git switch <your_branch>
```

git fetch
git rebase origin/dev
```
- Make commits of logical and atomic units.
- If possible, make PR of logical and atomic units too (avoid mixing refactoring, new features and bug fix at the same time).
- Add a description to PRs to explain what they do and why.
- Each PR must be linked to at least one issue to simplify tracking.
- Assign one maintainer and one developer when opening the PR to get reviews, if you don't know who to assign then consider automatic assignment is enough.
- Pay attention to all the comments made by reviewers and either answer/challenge them or address them before asking for another review.
- Help the reviewer by following advice given in [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/code-review-love/).

> - Review code following advice given in [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code-reviews/) and [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).

Reviewer 6: A lot of this is already part of the contributing code guide on the website.
How about improving the website guide and just linking to it? That's a lot of content for a single page, and the website guide is missing the rebase instructions.

### Bugs

> - Bug must have a correct description and the bug's issue template must be filled carefully.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

I would rather assume people are going to follow the template, which already has mandatory fields for things that are really needed

> - Bug must be tagged with:

Reviewer 6: external contributors cannot tag issues

  - `kind:bug`

>   - one or several `area:<affected_area>` if possible, if the affected area is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  - one or several `area:<affected_area>` if possible, if the affected area is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member.
```

  - one `severity:<bug_severity>` if possible, if severity is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member.
      - `severity:minor`: User can still use the feature.
      - `severity:major`: User sometimes can't use the feature.

>       - `severity:critical`: User can't use the feature.

Reviewer 6: I would rather have a separate section on bug triaging:
 - external contributors can't change issue labels anyway
 - not everyone can decide how critical something is
 - some tags require technical knowledge

- Contributors can change issues' tags (severity, area, kind, ...). 
  You may leave a comment to explain changes.
- If you are working on a bug or plan to work on a bug, assign yourself to the bug.

> - PRs solving bugs should add a regression tests to ensure that bug will not be back in the future.

Reviewer 6: This rule would be best located in the pull request guide

### General code recommendations

- Take the time to pick good names.
  Avoid non well-known abbreviations.
- Test as much code as possible to avoid future regression and show that added code is bullet proof.
- To keep our API surface minimal, only make public what is necessary.
- Documentation should only be there to explain things that aren't self evident.

>   Exception for `Java` where all public methods must be documented.

Reviewer 6: Don't you think that's a bit much? These rules apply to any software project, not just ours, why bother listing these out? 
Making such a list also has a cost: the more rules and constraints there are, the less people are willing to contribute. I think we can catch these things during review, and kindly suggest changes. I'd rather have someone try to contribute sub-par code than not doing it at all.

# Contributing to OSRD

## Where to start ?

All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.

If you are brand new to OSRD or open-source development, we recommend chatting with us on [libera chat](https://web.libera.chat/#osrd) or going through the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/DGEXSolutions/osrd/issues) tab to find issues that interest you. There are number of issues listed under `good first issue` where you could start out.

## Contribute code

> Commit style is detailed in the [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Commit style is detailed in the [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code/#git-commit-style).
```

- Each PR must be linked to at least one github issue to simplify tracking.
- Pay attention to all the comments made by reviewers and either answer/challenge them or address them before asking for another review.
- Assign one maintainer and one developer using github assignment when opening the PR to get reviews.
- Help the reviewer by following advice given in [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/code-review-love/).
- Review code following advice given in [osrd.fr/docs](https://osrd.fr/en/docs/guides/contribute/code-reviews/) and [mtlynch article](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).
- Make commits of logical and atomic units.
- If possible, make PR of logical and atomic units too (avoid mixing refactoring, new features and bug fix at the same time).
- Keep your branch up-to-date :
```
git checkout <your_branch>
git fetch
git rebase origin/dev
```

### Bugs

The way support is delivered greatly impacts how users perceive the product and the team.
Handling the incoming support requests efficiently is thus a top priority.

- Bug must have a correct description and the bug's issue template must be filled carefully.
- Bug must be tagged with:
  - `kind:bug`

>   - one or several `area:<affected_area>`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  - one or several `area:<affected_area> if possible, if the affected area is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member`
```

  - one `severity:<bug_severity>` if possible, if severity is not known leave it blank it will be added later by another team member
- Contributors can change issues' tags (severity, area, kind, ...) if necessary. 
  Keep in mind that explaining why you are editing an issue is the best way to avoid misunderstanding.
- If you are working on a bug or plan to work on a bug, assign yourself to the bug.

>   If a bug is assigned to someone, consider that they are is already working on the resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If a bug is assigned to someone, consider that they are already working on the resolution.
```

- PRs solving bugs should add a regression tests to ensure that bug will not be back in the future.

### General code recommendations

- Take the time to pick good names.
  Avoid non well-known abbreviations.

### Python

- Follow [the Zen of Python](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/).
- To keep our API surface minimal, only document and make public what is necessary.
- Code is linted with [flake8](https://github.com/csachs/pyproject-flake8).
- Code is formatted with [Black](https://github.com/psf/black).
- Imports are sorted with [Isort](https://github.com/PyCQA/isort).

### Test

- TODO

### Rust

> - To keep our API surface minimal, only document and make public what is necessary.

Reviewer 4: I get keeping stuff private, but shouldn't we document as much as possible anyway?

Author: Not sure, for instance java code is polluted by doc like `/** Constructor */` that is not helping but just adding content. Lots of the doc is just paraphrasing methods/functions/classes names and I think more doc doesn't mean better doc. If naming is good and goal is obvious then there is no need to add a paraphrasing doc that maybe won't be updated in the future.

Good documentation must help future us to understand what is done not just paraphrasing or documenting obvious and simple code.

Reviewer 4: Ah yes, that kind of documentation is useless. But that's true for public APIs as well, I'm not sure why you would draw a distinction.

EDIT: Oh, I got it, that's "document what is necessary and make public what is necessary", not "(document and make public) what is necessary". My bad.

Reviewer 4: We should probably have specific guideline on the doc part (not necessarily in this iteration of the Contributing)

While what is necessary to make public is usually quite obvious (the compiler enforces it after all - even if designing god APIs takes work), what is necessary to document is both non obvious and quite often subject to debate.

Maybe (as a short first pass)

```
- To keep our API surface minimal, only make public what is necessary.
- Documentation should only be there to explain things that aren't self evident.
```
